hi everyone la salut Montgomery here
again with another China history podcast
party today the exciting conclusion of
our cultural revolution overview right
now I'm going to suggest you go give
episode CHP 67 a second listen because a
lot of what went down in China is 1975
transitioned into 1976 was discussed in
a tongue shell pink part 5 episode
December 16 1975 Kong Chung succumbed to
bladder cancer and other ailments
although Kang was given a nice
sending-off as you recall from chp 10
they kicked him out of the party took
his ashes out of baba Shan and the only
things he ever hear officially or
unofficially about Kong hung or of the
negative nature 23 days later on January
8th after years of physical suffering
premier Jill and Lai also succumbs to
the same cancer that took the life of
Cong Xiang that's how the Year of the
Dragon 1976 started off and 12 months
later when common Chinese and cadres
leaders who survived the past 10 years
of turmoil when they all got together
you know with whoever they party with a
New Year's Eve no matter who it was both
mob I Ching and Ling doll alike they
could all agree ears like 1976 didn't
happen too often this was one for the
history books China in 1976 witnessed a
chain of events that began with the
passing of premier Joe and lye and ended
with the re-emergence of the Michelle
ping onto the scene after he had been
purged a second time the milestones of
1976 are well known
Joanne Lai dies January 8th Quaqua Fung
takes over from the disgraced thong Xiao
ping then there's the April 5th
Tiananmen incident the gang of four pour
scorn I'm done for provoking that event
he disappears for a year walk well Fung
becomes acting premier May 11th Mao has
another heart attack and this one pretty
much put some
Commission June 26th Mao has another
heart attack
July 6th marshal Judah passes away July
28th the tung-shun earthquake
then in September Mao had another heart
attack and finally just past midnight on
September 9th Mao dies and at this
moment of crisis Wong Dongsheng is given
control of Mars personal papers so that
neither the Gang of Four nor the old
guard could mess with them yet yin-yang
Li xiannian Jaco Fung Wong dong Shaitan
they all start having secret talks and
in fact had already come to a common
understanding about what to do with the
matter of the Gang of Four October 6th
hua calls a Standing Committee meeting
at 8 p.m. in the hiren hall in the
jungle high compound within half an hour
as they all show up one by one one
hong-won
John Quincy IL and yawen Yin are
arrested and held by the party center
then Chang Ching is taken at her John 9
high residence October 18th
hua announces to the nation that the
Gang of Four had been smashed these four
people plus Chen bowed on many others
had worn out their welcome for quite a
while so their fall was quick and
without much resistance with the gang
seemingly and disgraced with no chance
of an amazing comeback now that Mao
wasn't around to protect them everyone
was able to breathe a collective and
symbolic sigh of relief done Xiao Peng
missed everything he was still out of
the picture he was down in Guangzhou and
the Mission Impossible went down in the
jounin high compound but dung stood
close by his phone and was briefed on
the operation after they took Jung Ching
in her bedroom thanks to his loyal
friends dong is back by December 1976
and although not officially back or in
any position yet he is allowed to read
party documents again January 6 1977
dung is officially back which
predictably spelled the beginning of the
end for Chairman focke-wulf own well a
very large swath
of the Chinese nation finally had had
enough of the Gang of Four and certainly
enough of the whole Cultural Revolution
the buzz in the air from Dongbei to
chignon
was that these past 10 years had been
the penultimate waste of time resources
and lives with all the new attention
prestige geopolitical dynamic that began
to happen in 1971 1972 with Nixon's
visit the sweet victory for the PRC at
the UN all the other nations beating a
path to China's door and many other new
happenes just made the whole Cultural
Revolution take on a particularly foul
odor there were too many green pastures
being dangled in front of China with all
the sudden changes unless we forget it
was Chairman Mao not thumb Xiao ping who
put China on this road that led to guy
kook - well not so much the geiger
reform but definitely the Chi Fung
opening up to the world in general and
the West in particular Mao Zedong gets
splashed with a lot of mud from the
Cultural Revolution but let's give him
credit for being so bold as to see the
benefits to rapprochement with the USA
and the other Western former imperialist
powers and to allow that to start
happening only five years into the
Cultural Revolution so if there was any
wind in the sails of the gang of four
and their minions it was a foul wind
indeed from my research had seemed it
didn't take too much talking for Li
xiannian and yet geunyang to convince
Jaco Fung into siding with them although
as long as the Michelle pain was still
alive that posed a potential threat to
Hua but in October 1976 Dunn was out of
the picture so quas immediate threat was
the gang of four Wong Tung Ching - he
came over to the side of the anti gang
of four I cannot stress how important
this was to have had one tow machine on
their side
he was very tight with Jung Chang and
owed all of his power in a
to her good graces he could just as
easily sided with Chang Chang and that
would have thrown a wrench in the plan
now came Redemption time for Wang dong
Ching so on October 6th 1976 when the
gang of four were taken under the direct
control of the party centre there
weren't too many out there who were
jumping to their defense in no way am I
saying they had no friends but they had
no friends that mattered of course they
were still diehard radicals around China
who still supported them and fought for
them but overwhelmingly the tide of
history was going against the Gang of
Four so what of the Cultural Revolution
what to do about it now
the gang was overthrown Mao was gone kua
was doing a good job so far handling
miles funeral arrangements and dealing
with the gang the next order of business
was to bring Tung Xiao ping back but
that could wait indefinitely as far as
walk well fung was concerned but was 15
minutes were gonna be up real soon in
the glorious afterglow of the end of the
Cultural Revolution when Hawk Wilfong
said in February 1977 quote whatever
policy Chairman Mao decided upon
we shall resolutely defend whatever
directives Chairman Mao issued we shall
steadfastly obey the to whatever is
ladies and gentlemen and wen hua hua
Fung went a little overboard about not
wanting to trash the Cultural Revolution
and saying you know there may be more to
come one day his 15 minutes were up but
for all intents and purposes with Mao
Zedong gone from this earth and the gang
of four already taken into custody in
October 1976 the Cultural Revolution was
finished it hid done its damage and all
that remained was a good old major
industrial mopping up and that was the
next step to all of this they had to do
it after the Great Leap Forward now it
was time to do it again in the wake of
the social political and economic
destruction wrought by the Cultural
Revolution but before this could be
officially carried out there was one
last
step and that was to bring dung Xiao
ping back and put him into all the major
positions of power from which he could
derive the authority to orchestrate this
recovery again you can go back to CHP
episodes 67 and 68 to review how dung
did it and what happened immediately
after his return at the 11th Congress in
August 1977 and then at the third plenum
in December 18th to twenty second
nineteen seventy eight when Quaqua Fung
was gently pushed aside and faded from
the limelight and with Park Row Fung
being shoved gently aside any hopes Mao
had that his legacy would go down in
history as he wished went out the door
it was at this most historic third
plenum of the 11th Central Committee
December 78 that the reform era began in
China the path that China followed that
ultimately led to where we are today
began at the end of 1978 two years after
Mao's death and the fall of the gang of
four dong Xiao ping did three things
that served as the epilogue to the
Cultural Revolution first order of
business was to rehabilitate all those
who had been unjustly booted out of
their positions of power and unjustly
imprisoned
this included posthumously bringing back
those who had been persecuted to death
victims who had been unjustly treated as
a result of the Cultural Revolution were
rehabilitated and most restored to their
former positions this is also where dong
creates the central Advisory Commission
where those elders of his generation are
placed so that room could be made for
the next generation of trained
technocratic
get into place the CAC was an advisory
group without that much power but they
still packed a punch and later on
qianyuan used his position in this CAC
central Advisory Commission to dig his
heels in the ground
Duns reforms but this is all included in
the dumb shopping overview yet the fifth
plenum in February 1980 leo chachi was
dealt with and though he had been dead
for more than ten years China's former
state president and revolutionary hero
going back to the beginning was
exonerated I'm sure this was little
compensation for his widow want Wong Mei
the investigation into Leo's case
concluded noes arrest and later
persecution was quote the biggest
frame-up
the CCP has ever known in its history
which had been created out of thin air
by fabricating materials forging
evidence extorting confessions and
withholding testimony the next order of
business to bury these ghosts of the
Cultural Revolution was to put the gang
of four on trial and use them as the
scapegoat for more or less every single
abuse that went on between 1966 and 1976
this entertaining and dramatic show
trial took place over three months
between November 1980 in January 1981
good ol punk Jun remember him it all
began with his demise back in 1966 well
he was back and intimately involved in
the trial of the gang Chang - inshaallah
remained silent throughout the entirety
of the trial and the condemnation of his
actions were loud and for his role
during the ten years of chaos he was
severely rebuked he received a sentence
of death that was later commuted to life
in prison in 1998
Jiang was released from prison on
medical parole and died of cancer in
2005 at the ripe old age of 88 wong hong
hwon who had come from such humble
beginnings as a textile factory worker
and in record time rose to the very top
most heights of power in beijing he too
got life in prison and died of liver
disease in 1992 at the age of 58 yawen
Yin who
was called upon by Mao all those years
ago to write thee criticism of that play
hi Dre dismissed from office
he got off the lightest with a 20-year
sentence and was released in 1996 and
died of complications related to
diabetes in December 2005 he lived out
his days and obscurity and his passing
was hardly noticed yes for Madame Mao
her behavior at the trial was legendary
she refused to repent and famously
talked back and argued and was totally
uncooperative from the get-go she knew
big mouths widowed and all that no one
would dare sentence her to death
which is what they did of course but
like Jang hoon she'll her sentence was
commuted to life in prison and that's
where she died in prison or more
precisely in a prison hospital where
once she had the chance she hung herself
on May 14 1991 she had been suffering
from throat cancer and had been holed up
in China's most notorious prison ching
chong Ju the Chinese nation was glued to
their TV sets for the show trial of the
gang of four at the trial it was
mentioned that seven hundred twenty
seven thousand four hundred and twenty
people had been persecuted due to the
policies the gang espoused during the
Cultural Revolution although it was
little compensation Wan Guang Mei was
present at the trial and watched as the
death of her husband in particular was
pinned on them in addition to all her
other crimes the court also accused gen
Ching of the systematic persecution of
countless Chinese artists of all kinds
after all in the realm of Culture Mao
had granted gem Shan ultimate authority
for all the years of the Cultural
Revolution Yong Cheng was the ultimate
arbiter as far as what was art and what
could and couldn't be seen and enjoyed
by the masses the particular suffering
of those Chinese painters poets writers
filmmakers and other artists as
well-known also well-known
Jeng Jeng personally got involved to
ruin the lives of livelihood of so many
the stories that have been passed down
to us today by survivors and children of
survivors are riveting and really give a
good sense of the horror these people
went through John King strategy was
predictable whatever heinous crime they
tried to pin on her she just said hey
don't look at me
the signature quote from the trial was
when John King said water juicy detail
call juicy yahwah yo che
yo yo che I was the Chairman's dog
I bit whomever he asked me to bite well
ma wasn't around to defend himself and
this was a hard thing to defend you can
imagine because there was obviously an
element of truth to it besides the Gang
of Four there was still genoise to deal
with
he was as guilty as the next guy as far
as instigating aiding and abetting all
the worst excesses of the Cultural
Revolution remember due to backing the
wrong horse Cheng hua was already in
prison since the luchon plenum when the
trial of gang of four took place he was
given an 18-year sentence and got out of
prison in October 1988 and died 11
months later this trial didn't leave out
lianbao and his gang the main event was
the gang of four but those who were
Lin's closest followers they too had
judgment passed on them plenty of blame
got heaped on the Limpy I'll click most
notorious of course Air Force commander
wolfish n-woo and three others were
given 16 to 17 years and more than
anything else
their principal crime lay in the
mistreatment of political rivals in the
military so you had the rehabilitations
the trial of the gang of four and the
last order of business for dung was for
a final decision to be made on the
Cultural Revolution from the party
center on the eve of the 60th
anniversary of the founding of the CCP
on July 1st 1981 the party center issued
a document adopted by the 6th Planum of
the 11th Central Committee it was called
resolution on certain questions in the
history of our party since the founding
of the People's Republic of China this
was an attempt by the party to write the
history of the CCP since liberation in
1949 in this document lied the official
Communist Party verdict on the Cultural
Revolution mouths achievement is a
revolutionary in the 20s 30s and 40s and
his contributions to Mao Zedong Thought
formed the whole bedrock of the
legitimacy of the CCP so the chances
that the party was gonna dump on the
chairman were slim and nil nonetheless
judgment was passed and this is what
they said quote the Cultural Revolution
and in the document Cultural Revolution
is always shown in quotation marks the
Cultural Revolution which lasted from
may 1966 to October 1976 was responsible
for the most severe setback and the
heaviest losses suffered by the party
the state and the people since the
founding of the People's Republic it was
initiated and led by comrade Mao Zedong
but you know fingers weren't pointed at
Mao alone the document also said quote
as for Lin PL Chang Ching and others who
were placed in important positions by
comrade Mao Zedong the matter is of an
entirely different nature they rigged up
to counter revolutionary cliques in an
attempt to seize supreme power and
taking advantage of comrade Mao Zedong's
errors committed many crimes behind his
back bringing disaster to the country
and the people also quote the Cultural
Revolution negated many of the correct
principles policies and achievements of
the 17 years after the founding of the
People's Republic in fact it negated
much of the work of the Central
Committee of the party and the people's
government including comrade Mao
Zedong's own contribution
it negated the arduous struggles the
entire people had conducted in socialist
construction and as far as leo cauchy's
persecution the document said quote the
so-called bourgeois headquarters inside
the party headed by Leo Shaoqi and Deng
Xiaoping simply did not exist
irrefutable facts have proved that
labeling comrade neo xiaochi a quote
renegade hidden traitor and scab was
nothing but a frame-up by Lin byung-eon
Ching and their followers the political
conclusion concerning comrade no Xiao Qi
drawn by the 12th plenary session of the
eighth Central Committee of the party
and the disciplinary measures it meted
out to him were both utterly wrong the
criticism of so-called reactionary
academic authorities in the Cultural
Revolution during which many capable and
accomplished intellectuals were attacked
and persecuted also badly muddled up the
distinction between the people and the
enemy as for the perpetrators and those
most guilty the document minces no words
when it says quote Lin Yao Jung King
Kong Zhang Jiang Cheng Chao and others
acting chiefly in the name of the
Cultural Revolution group exploited the
situation to incite people to overthrow
everything in wage full-scale civil war
the 9th Congress of the party in April
1969 legitimized the erroneous theories
and practices of the Cultural Revolution
and so reinforced the positions of Lin
PL Chang Ching Tung Chung and others in
the Central Committee of the party the
guidelines of the 9th Congress were
wrong ideologically politically and
organizationally that was pretty
straightforward and to the point then
the document went on to say the 10th
Congress of the party perpetrated the
left errors of the 9th Congress and made
one home one a vice chairman of the
party gen Ching Chang - and she'll yell
when UN and Wong hong-won formed a gang
of four inside the political Bureau of
the Central Committee thus strengthening
the influence of the counter
evolutionary gem chain click in the huge
bold type exclamation point to this
epilogue of the Cultural Revolution said
plainly quote chief responsibility for
the grave left error of the Cultural
Revolution an ear comprehensive in
magnitude and protracted in duration
does indeed lie with comrade Mao Zedong
however the document was also generous
to Mao and stating the positive role he
played despite his later errors it said
quote while persisting in the
comprehensive error of the Cultural
Revolution he checked and rectified some
of its specific mistakes protected some
leading party cadres and non party
public figures and enabled some leading
cadres to return to important leading
posts he led the struggle to smash the
counter-revolutionary Lin PL clique he
made major criticisms and exposures of
Jung Chang Jiang Cheng Chao and others
frustrating their sinister ambition to
seize supreme leadership all this was
crucial to the subsequent and relatively
painless overthrow of the Gang of Four
by our party in his later years he still
remained alert to safeguarding the
security of our country stood up to the
pressure of the social imperialists
pursued a correct foreign policy firmly
supported the just struggles of all
people's outlined the correct strategy
of the three worlds and advanced the
important principle that China would
never seek hegemony it also said quote
comrade Mao Zedong was a great Marxist
and a great proletarian revolutionary
strategist and theorist it is true that
he made gross mistakes during the
Cultural Revolution but if we judge his
activities as a whole his contributions
to the Chinese Revolution far outweigh
his mistakes his merits are primary and
his errors
secondary he rendered indelible
meritorious service in founding and
building up our party and the Chinese
People's Liberation Army in winning
victory for the cause
liberation of the Chinese people in
founding the People's Republic of China
and in advancing our socialist cause he
made major contributions to the
liberation of the oppressed nations of
the world and to the progress of mankind
so with this document this resolution on
certain questions in the history of our
party it sought to show for all to see
the official party line and not only the
Cultural Revolution but mouths hand and
allowing what happened to happen
Jiang Chang and the Gang of Four the CCR
G and everyone associated with Lin BL
received the overwhelming plane while
pinning the whole mess on Mao the
chairman's errors are mitigated
substantially by his achievements and
contributions not only to the party as
well as to the Chinese nation and to
this day this is the official party line
and pretty much you know what I hear
most Chinese say he was bad overall but
did good things that cannot be denied
although this is the party's official
remarks on the subject of the Cultural
Revolution there are many more ways to
look at this these 10 years of chaos
affected different people in different
ways there was more to it than the
ruination of people's lives the death
and terrible suffering of millions of
ordinary Chinese like every political
and social issue whatever it was
everything depended on one's ranking in
society or the place they found
themselves whether a common laborer
making the minimum income or the
wealthiest best connected and brightest
shining star who you were and what your
outlook was on life shaped your opinions
of the Cultural Revolution back in may
one of my listeners Godfrey writing from
the lush and beautiful countryside of
northern Thailand wrote to me and said
let me quote the history of the Cultural
Revolution like all histories is written
by the victors in this case the
administrative elite of China their
observations are backed up by inter
national administrative elites who have
more in common with each other than with
the people they administer who were
equally horrified by the cultural
revolutions goal of overthrowing the
elite and implementing direct democracy
Mao had seen his revolution betrayed by
CCP administrators who had simply
assumed the roles of their local
pre-revolutionary predecessors you know
pressing the people Mao intended the
Cultural Revolution to be a kind of
democratic great leap forward into a
remarkable degree it succeeded I'm
quoting a Godfrey directly since I
couldn't have said this any better
myself the Godfrey recommended a book
that gives a different viewpoint about
the policies of the Cultural Revolution
called the unknown Cultural Revolution
life and change in a Chinese village
this was written by a Chinese author who
gave first-hand experience and uses a
village in rural Shandong as his example
the author
han dong ping shows that despite all the
marquee events that went on in Beijing
Shanghai Wuhan Nanjing and other major
cities out in parts of the countryside
there were quite dramatic improvements
to the daily life of the peasants in
this book Warren Wilson College history
and political science professor Han dong
ping maintains the Cultural Revolution
helped overthrow local hierarchies
established participatory democracy and
economic planning in the communes and
expand education and public services
especially for the elderly so if you're
a poor peasant living out in the
countryside maybe you might take a
different approach to judging the
Cultural Revolution than some you know
educated Beijing resident well I hope
you enjoyed this little eight part
overview on the Cultural Revolution this
is a subject that is mammoth in its size
and scope I don't know how many books
and important papers have been written
about this subject it has spawned novels
movies and is expressed in almost every
conceivable kind of art form when I call
this a part series an overview please
know that's all it is if you wish to
learn more about this subject there's
plenty out there that can explain things
better than I ever could and certainly
and much greater and fascinating detail
if there's one book above all else that
I would recommend on the subject
may I suggest mouths last revolution by
Roderick MacFarquhar and Michael
Chanel's published by Harvard University
Press in 2008 that was my main stalwart
for the series and I heartily recommend
it
next time we're back to the same old
same oh I'll dig into my overflowing
treasure trove of topics and pull one
out this is my 90th episode so more and
more you're gonna hear me reference past
China history podcasts that you could go
back and re-listen to rather than having
me keep repeating myself but some things
on my website I'll have the usual
vocabulary list for the names places and
bits of Mandarin here and there for
those of you who sent me emails
requesting that you got it baby I also
have links to MacFarquhar and channels
book as well as a link to the recent two
This American Life which has New Yorker
writer Evan Osnos introducing American
Kaiser Gua and his life experience in
China as an American the other story is
told by Michael Mayer another American
living up in the sticks of Manchuria he
tells an amazing story and gives another
point of view about you know what it's
like living in rural China two amazing
stories I really admire these people
from all over the world who end up in
China lived there for years learn to
speak perfect Mandarin and plug
themselves in to Chinese society to
observe and learn and to report so go
check out the recent This American Life
episode for two perfect examples of what
I'm talking about
so that's that for everyone out there
who has been requesting this topic going
back to 2010 I hope
left feeling satisfied and nourished but
hopefully you'll come back wanting more
this is Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from Claremont California on a gorgeous
hot sunny day join us next time won't
you for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast